On a school trip,
high school seniorPeter Parkervisits aColumbia
Universitygenetics lab, where a genetically
engineered "super spider" who escaped containment
bites him, and he feels ill after returning home.
Meanwhile,Norman Osborn, owner of scientific
corporationOscorp, tries to land a major military
contract. He experiments on himself with an
unstable performance-enhancing chemical and
goes insane, killing his assistant and stealing
a glider with a flight suit. The next morning,
Peter notices he is no longermyopicand his body
has metamorphosed into a more muscular physique.
At school, he discovers that he can
shootspiderwebsfrom his wrists
and has accelerated reflexes and an
increased ability to sense danger.
After Peter beatsFlash Thompson, the school
bully, in a fight, he realizes that he has
acquired the abilities of the spider who bit
him, and verifies this by climbing up the wall.
Having heard about his confrontation with
Flash, Peter'sUncle Bencounsels him that "with
great power comes great responsibility". Peter
disregards this and enters a clandestine wrestling
tournament to raise money to buy a car, wanting
to impress his love interestMary Jane Watson.
He wins his first match, but the
promoter cheats him out of his winnings.
When a thief suddenly robs the promoter's office,
Peter allows him to escape with the
promoter's money in retaliation.
Shortly after, he learns that Ben
has been killed by a carjacker.
Peter pursues and confronts the carjacker, and
discovers he is the same thief he let escape.
After Peter disarms him, the thief
falls out a window to his death.
Meanwhile, a crazed Norman sports advanced Oscorp
armor and military equipment, and disrupts an
experiment by Oscorp's corporate rival, Quest
Aerospace, killing several people in the process.
The following day, he is shown to have no
memory of the event. Upon graduation, Peter
begins to use his abilities to fight crime in the
city, becoming the masked superheroSpider-Man.
J. Jonah Jameson, editor of theDaily
Buglenewspaper, hires Peter as a freelance
photographer, as he is the only person
who provides clear images of Spider-Man.
However, Jameson uses the pictures to
discredit Spider-Man, believing he is a menace.
Meanwhile, Peter decides to move to an apartment
with his best friend and Norman's sonHarry.
Norman learns Oscorp's board plans to
oust him and sell the company to Quest,
and exacts revenge on them as his costumed
alter-ego at the World Unity Fair.
As Spider-Man, Peter intervenes
and defeats Norman, who escapes.
Jameson later dubs the mysterious villain
the "Green Goblin." After discovering he has
developed a crazedalternate personality, Norman,
as the Goblin, offers Peter a place by his side,
but he refuses. During their confrontation,
Peter suffers a cut to his left arm.
When Norman,Aunt May, and Mary Jane are invited
over forThanksgivingdinner by Peter and Harry,
Norman notices Peter's earlier sustained
injury, and deduces that Peter is Spider-Man.
He later attacks and hospitalizes May.
Meanwhile, Mary Jane admits that she is in love
with Spider-Man, who has rescued her twice,
and asks Peter if Spider-Man ever asked about her.
Harry, who is dating Mary Jane, arrives and
presumes that she has feelings for Peter after
seeing them hold hands. Devastated, Harry
tells his father that Peter loves Mary Jane,
inadvertently revealing Spider-Man's
greatest weakness to him.
The Goblin kidnaps Mary Jane and aRoosevelt
Island trolleycar full of children hostage
along theQueensboro Bridge, forcing
Peter to choose who he will save.
He manages to rescue both, while civilians
nearby side with Peter and taunt the Goblin.
Enraged, he grabs Peter and takes him
to the abandonedSmallpox Hospital,
where he brutally beats him.
When the Goblin brags about how he will later kill
Mary Jane, an enraged Peter gains the upper hand.
Norman reveals himself as the
Goblin and begs for forgiveness,
while controlling his glider
to impale Peter from behind.
Warned by his spider sense, Peter dodges the
attack and the glider fatally impales Norman,
who asks Peter not to reveal his identity
as the Goblin to Harry before dying.
Peter takes Norman's body to the Osborns'
house, where Harry sees him and mistakenly
assumes Spider-Man killed his father, without
having time to see that Spider-Man is Peter.
At Norman's funeral, Harry vows revenge on
Spider-Man, and claims that Peter is the
only family he has left. Mary Jane confesses
her feelings for Peter, but he rejects her,
fearing that his enemies would try to get to
him through her. As he leaves the funeral,
Peter remembers Ben's words and accepts
his new responsibility as Spider-Man.